---
layout: article
comments: true
title: "Quick Recap of C++"
categories: game-engine 
tags: [c++, game-engine]
comments: true
image:
  teaser: teaser.jpg
---

The whole series are mostly notes of Youtube Videos in Channel [TheChernoProject](). 
I found it very helpful in learning C++ and game engine, because I'm also a newbie in this field.
I will try to give references or maybe dig more for some import concepts.

This will be a really quick recap of C++. It assumes you have already basic understanding what is C++ and some programming experience of it.
It refers only some essential basics and features which might be useful in following programming. 
But all in all, it doesn't hurt by reading this when you just start learning C++.


## Main Function

A simple HelloWorld function of C++.

{% highlight C++ %}
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
  std:cout << "Hello World!" << std:endl;
  system("PAUSE");
  return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}


`std:cout`: standard output. You can also just write `std:cout << "Hello World"`.

`std:endl`: break the line.

`<<`: operator overload. Don't worry about it, we will talk about in the future. 

`return 0`: return an integer. 0 means a proper exit. 

Now you can just consider it as push method of the standard output.
Output can be "pushed" into `std:cout` with `<<`.

Arguments could be given to main function like this.

{% highlight C++ %}
#include <iostream>

int main(int argc, char *args[])
{
  std:cout << "Hello, " << args[1] << std:endl;
  return 0;
}

{% endhighlight %}

`argc`: counter of arguments.

`args[]` : arguments array.

## Data Type

{% highlight C++ %}

int a = 1; // 4-bytes
unsigned int a = 1;       // a can't be negative
signed int a = 1;         // a can be negative
unsigned long a = 1;      // 4 bytes, C++ compiler doesn't make it 8 bytes
unsigned long long a = 1; // 8 bytes, you have to use long long to make it 8 bytes
float f = 1.0f;           // 4 bytes
double d = 0.0;           // 8 bytes

sizeof(int)               // check out the size of data type

{% endhighlight %}

## Preprocessor

C++ has preprocessor. It means it works before the code get compiled.

`#` is the term for the preprocessor contents.

What `#include <iostream>` do is only copy the code into the current file.

